---
layout: talk
title:  "Disposable sanitary items: an established lifestyle with giant sustainability burdens"
date:   2023-01-20
categories: talk
speaker: Antonio Capezza
---
The worldwide population and the increased accessibility of disposable sanitary items boost the market even during pandemic times. About 20% of this market accounted for diapers and incontinence products. For example, only 1 child produces up to 1 ton of waste every year in diapers, representing 4% of the total household waste and the 3rd most common item encountered in landfills. Naturally, the amount of waste generated is higher considering all disposable products. Thus, the sanitary industry carries a large environmental footprint, especially since these products are single-use and comprise 70% non-biodegradable plastics. At the same, recent solutions relying on renewable resources to produce biobased plastics are also becoming an issue when it requires the exploitation of virgin resources (crops, trees, etc.). There are also ethical issues with using food-grade resources as material building blocks. Science is taking a new direction to comply with sustainability and must now consider the entire value chain of a product: from raw materials to new waste. In this regard, the agro-food industry is important in finding sustainable materials for the disposable sanitary sector. The agro-food industry produces tons of waste daily that cannot be used as food or feed. At this point, our utmost goal is to create safe, biodegradable materials that can eventually be used as absorbents in sanitary items. The challenging task is to find a solution that is not degrading into microplastics and can be produced using regular polymer technologies and with industrial waste. The recent advances in finding solutions that fulfill the most sustainable criteria from cradle-to-cradle approaches will be presented, including future perspectives and possibilities. 
