---
layout: talk
title:  "Spintronics and cosmic magnifying glasses"
date:   2024-05-10
categories: talk
speaker: Kryštof Jasenský & Gonçalo Gonçalves
---
Speaker 1: Kryštof Jasenský
### Spintronics - harder, better, faster, stronger
What if, instead of their charge, we leveraged the electron’s spin for data storage and computation? This question is what brought to life the field of spintronics. We will talk about existing spintronic devices and novel approaches currently under investigation. Time permitting, we will delve into the topic of antiferromagnetic spintronics. We will (hopefully) see that antiferromagnetic materials are far more useful than their discoverer, Louis Néel, envisioned them to be.

Speaker 2: Gonçalo Gonçalves
### Unlocking the Universe’s Secrets with AI and Cosmic Magnifying Glasses
Okay, so picture this: stellar explosions, cosmic magnifying glasses, machine learning, and a dash of detective work. We’re talking about using gravitationally lensed supernovae to decipher one of the universe’s deepest mysteries: how fast it’s expanding. I will show you how we simulate these rare objects, what they look like, and how they can be used to infer the cosmic expansion rate. When it comes to applying machine learning to any task, there are a plethora of ways to go about it. In this talk I plan on going over a few of them and discussing pros and cons associated with each. But I’m just a rookie, so this is where you come in! I will open up the discussion to hear your experience and intuition regarding machine learning applications. Hopefully this way we will all learn something new, and get one step closer to unlocking the Universe’s secrets.
